---
layout: page
title: Intelligenza Artificiale
permalink: /teaching/81940/
---

Welcome to the Artificial Intelligence (AI) project page for the Master's degree program in Computer Science at the University of Bologna.

- [Group Management](#group-management)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Evaluation Process](#evaluation-process)
- [Report Guidelines](#report-guidelines)
- [Implementation](#implementation)
- [Submission](#submission)
- [Demo](#demo)
- [Project Discussion](#project-discussion)
- [Extra content for the course](#extra-content-for-the-course)

## Group Management

- Each group consists of 1 to 4 members.
- To participate in the exam, communicate your group composition via email to the [tutor](mailto:stefanopio.zingaro@unibo.it).
- Email subject: **GRUPPO AI**
- Include: Group name, member names, IDs, contact email.

For those seeking a group or individual students, visit the [group list page](groups) for contact info and existing group details.

## Project Structure

- Projects can be proposed by groups or course instructors.
- Instructors' proposals are guidelines (problems, tasks, datasets).
- Check the [proposals page](../proposals) for instructor-proposed projects.

## Evaluation Process

- Two components: written report and code implementation.
- Evaluation through an oral exam discussing the project.
- All group members participate in discussing the project.

## Report Guidelines

- No length limits, 12pt font, any preferred format (e.g., `lateX`, `docx`).
- Follow the [report template](../report) structure.
- Submit as a PDF file named `REPORT_AI.pdf`.

## Implementation

- Use preferred technologies for development.
- Use `git` for project management.
- Store code on [GitLab](http://gitlab.com) using the provided procedure.

## Submission

1. Create a `Tag` named **Consegna** on GitLab.
2. Notify the [tutor](mailto:stefanopio.zingaro@unibo.it) with subject: **CONSEGNA AI - GROUP NAME**.

## Demo

- Prepare a script for automated testing.
- Can include screenshots or additional material.
- Integration with code is optional.

## Project Discussion

- Evaluation includes report analysis and code implementation.
- Exam date based on GitLab `Tag` creation.
- Exam date and details will be scheduled after submission.

## Extra content for the course

A set of `Python` notebooks that can be used as a starting point for teaching machine learning:

* [Linear Regression with Gradient Descent](https://vscode.dev/github/lozingaro/lozingaro.github.io/blob/main/assets/src/linear-regression-w-gradient-descent.ipynb)
* [The Neural Network](https://vscode.dev/github/lozingaro/lozingaro.github.io/blob/main/assets/src/nn-rulez.ipynb)
* [The Perceptron](https://vscode.dev/github/lozingaro/lozingaro.github.io/blob/main/assets/src/percettrone.ipynb)
* [PyTorch Basics Tutorial](https://vscode.dev/github/lozingaro/lozingaro.github.io/blob/main/assets/src/pytorch_classification_framework.ipynb)